Javascript cookies

cookies let you store user information in web pages

What are cookies?

cookies are data, stored in small text files, on your computer

when a web server has sent a web page to a browser, the connection is shut down, and the server forgets everything about the user

cookies were invented to solve the promblem "how to remember information about the user"

cookies were invented to solve the promblem "how to remember information about the user"

Cookies were invented to solve the promblem, "how to remember information about the user"

1) When a user visits a web oage, his/her name can be stored in a cookie
2) Next time the user visits the page, the cookie "remembers" his/her name.

cookies are saved in name-value pairs like this:

Usernama = sahaj

When a broser request a web page from the server, cookies belonging to the page is added to the request. this way the server gets the necessary data to "remember" information about the users.

None of the example below will work if your browser has local cookies suuport turned off

Create cookies with javascript

javascript can create, read and delete cookies with the document.cookie property

With the javascript, a cookie can be created like this:

document.cookie = "username= john doe"

You can also add an expiry date (in UTC time), default, the cookie is deleted when the browser is closed

document.cookie = "username= john doe; expires= thu, 18 dec 2013 12:00:00 UTC";


woth the path parameter, you can tell the browser what path the cookie belongs to. by default, the cookies
belong to the current page.

with the path parameter, you can tell the browser what path the cookies belong to. by de

with the path parameter, you can tell the browser what path the cookie belongs to. by default, the cookies belongs to the current page

document.cookie = "username= John Doe; expires = thu, 18 dec 2013 12:00:00 UTC; path=/";

WIth the path parameter, you can tell the browser what path the cookies belongs to. by default, the cookies belong to the current page

document.cookie = "username = john doe; expires = thu 18, dec 2014 12:00:00 UTC; path =/";

Read a cookie with the javascript

With javascript, cookie can be read like this:

var x = document.cookie

document.cookie will return all cookies in one string much like :
cookie1= value, cookie2= value, cookie3= value;


Change a cookie with the javascript


change a cookie with javascript

With the javascript, you can change a cookie the same way as you craete it


Delete a cookie with the javascript

deleting a cookie is very simple

deleting a cookie is very simple

you donot have to specify a cookie value when you delete a cookie
 
you donot have to specify a cookie value when you delete a cookie

just set the expires parameter to a passed date.


you should define the cookie path to ensure that you delete the right cookie

some browser will not let you delete a cookie if you donot specify the path

the cookie string

the document.cookie property looks like a normal text string. but it is not

even if you write a whole cookie string to document.cookie, when you read it out again, you will only see the name-value pair of it.

if you set a new cookie, older cookies are not over


javascreipt

